# Project 1 - A Reflection
The purpose of our first project was to write and use functions in R. We needed to be able to read in a data set, subset it, transform it, and create two other data sets from it. /

For the overall main piece, writing and using functions, I think I was fine with it. I wrote my pieces separately in another file before putting them in markdown. Markdown felt like a "final product," and I wanted to make sure things ran the way they were supposed to before putting them into the "final product." \
A big issue I had with the project was adding a section to be able to name the new variable after changing the read in data to long format. I was able to name the new colum whatever, but when it came to the next funtion, the way I had defined it had problems with the naming. From the new column created from going to long format, I needed to use this new column to create two more columns, which I did so by using the `substr()` function. I tried defining the newly named column before using it to create the two new ones, I tried calling the column in a different way, but no matter what I did, it messed up what I was creating, starting the variables in my first new column with **"c(** and the second column, which was supposed to be numeric, all coming up as **NA**. I couldn't figure out how to fix it, instead opting to skip the detail of naming the long fomat column and hoping to come back to try adding and fixing it, time permitting. Unfortunately, I was unable to get to that part. /
I also struggled with the graphing section, a combination of stress and pressure due to time constraints and outside factors, as well as my brain short circuiting when trying to read parts of the instructions, which was much like trying to fit a square block into a triangular hole; it just wasn't working out. In our class discussion board, it seems this was a frustrating section for others to figure out, but unfortunately, I was unable to use the help, mostly because of the pressure of time and the fact I was not at the plotting section when all the discussion notifications kept showing up in my email, and I didn't have the time to go through the thread. As a result, details of the plotting funtions were also skipped over, favoring getting the big idea in the document and, like the details of my data processing functions, hoping to return to add in and smooth out the details. /

There's a lot I would have done differently for this project. For starters, I would have begun earlier. My biggest obstacle was myself, truth be told; I have the misfortune of getting it into gear when I put pressure on myself. No matter how hard I try to tell myself to start earlier, for some reason I really struggle with it. The executive dysfuntion is quite the pain, and there's nothing I can do except but fight myself. The work for my other classes starts to pile up until I'm scrambling to get everything done. I hate it, it's not healthy, and I don't know what to do to get my brain to cooperate with me. Lucky for me that I at least didn't start the day it was due, nor one or two days before, but I still needed more time on it. /
I would also, of course, try to figure out the details. The baffling part was trying to put in the name-it-yourself variable. Why was this not working when I tried to add the two new columns? I also needed the plotting details, my biggest problem being that I could not focus on the words decribing the details, and attempts at reading were much like trying to plug in a USB except no matter which way you flip it it's wrong and won't plug in. Some descriptions in the instructions felt vague and I thought "No, there's got to be something wrong with how I'm reading it. I _hope_ there's something wrong and I just need to read it again later." But every attempt was the same. I still think it was just not getting across to me./
There were also spots my code could have been more compart or efficient.

While I'm not fully satisfied because of missed details, I'm still proud of what I do have. It needs to be updated and improved, of course, but it's still an accomplishment.
The project is linked [here](file:///C:/Users/HP/OneDrive/Documents/ST%20558/project1.html).
