# Project 2: Electric Boogaloo

The purpose of this project was to create a vignette to explain how to connect to an API, retreive data with functions we created, and do an exploratory data analysis (EDA) with said data. We used the Spoonacular Food API for our vignette.

The most difficult part, but also the most enjoyable part, for me was the initial function creation. I started with logic statements, but doing that for each option isn't efficient code. My partner figured out how to remove unused options with `sapply()`. Wonderful! I can use that as a template for more functions! Except, I kept running into a problem. Whenever I used all options for a function, I kept getting a connection error. "Huh, that's weird. Why is this happening?" Looking up the error code onle didn't give any results. "Okay... maybe something is wrong witht the link?" I used one option - fine. Two options - still working. All but one - everything is coming up roses. Okay, let's return the link we're creating, let's see what's going wrong. When using all options, the URL I was trying to create would say `NA=NULL` at some point. I decided to take the inside part of a function and run it piece by piece to try different things. Rearranging items didn't matter, so that's not the issue. Checking syntax by typing out a link to `GET`, I was entering things correctly. What is it about the way we're defining options that gives this error when we use all of them? In a function, we create a list of the options and then create a new list by removing all the unused options (`is.null=TRUE`). Only giving inout for every option gives the `NA=NULL` piece. Then it occurred to me: Perhaps because we don't have anything to remove, it's telling us that, but by creating a NULL list item in our new lit. The functions worked after adding a NULL item to our initial list.

Creating functions to retrieve data was fun in both a problem solving way and an experimentation way. I was especially happy making the `random.recipes` function - what would it give me this time? What about when I give these tags?\
The EDA part then became tedious. We had to make sure our functions gave us something we could work with. For example, I created the `diet.restrictions` function, but the options I allow really only give us a list of recipes, not really data from those recipes to analyze. However, I did think it was useful to include, because it shows that, yes, you can create functions to connect to an API, but you can also return information that might not be useful or information that we can't really do EDA with. It really depends on how the function is defined. I think our EDA section shows different levels for what we can do with our functions. The first part gives a nice, in-depth analysis with the `recipe.search` function, a really basic EDA with the `random.recipes` function, and nothing with the `diet.restrictions` function (though the latter two do offer suggestions on how to improve).

An issue I had with the project is that it occured at such a busy time. I felt like I wasn't able to give it as much attention as I would have liked; along with the project, I had multiple class videos to watch and take notes from, three homeworks to complete (some of which required me to have videos watched), as well as two midterms, all in the same week. It felt like I didn't have time for anything. The obvious answer would be to start earlier, but time still would have been an issue: I still had homeworks, I still had videos and notes, and I still had tests to prepare for. Despite everything, though, I'd say I managed well. Not effeciently, but well. I'm very grateful I had a partner, because otherwise I feel I would be scrambling to get everything done and panicking. My guess is that the EDA would be extremely basic (though not nonexistent), and I'd likely still be mulling over functions.

[Here](https://github.com/ellen-yli/project2) is a link to the project repo, and [here](https://ellen-yli.github.io/project2/) is the rendered page.
