# Project 33 1/3

Regression! I enjoy fitting models and finding best fits. This project had us look at a data set and fit models to subsets of the data, specifically, two linear regression models, a random forest, and a boosted tree.

The unfortunate thing is that I had a few things come up during this project such as a birthday celebration and visiting a family member after a big surgery, so I had to travel in the middle of the project. It always seems to be the case that something happens during the semester's projects. (Let's just hope finals don't get interrupted.)

The project itself was fine. I'm a bit confused on the automation process, though. I created a function separately to fit models to each channel, and I thought it was interesting that none picked the boosted tree. Perhaps it had overfit to the training set? I created the linear regression model with the interaction terms. Originally, I was just going to do a subset method, but I found it resulted in the same model as the forward method my partner created. So, I figured throwing in the interaction terms would make it different enough to compare. After fitting for each channel, the model with interaction terms had the lowest RMSE for half of them.

Starting earlier is always the "nice" thing I think about when doing things differently, but the longer the semester goes, my brain starts to liquify. I'm just doing what I can. Starting earlier wouldn't change the fact I needed to travel when I did, it wouldn't necessarily make me understand the task better, and I'd still have other work and deadlines to catch. I wish I better understood the automation part of the project or how to fix the part that's not working on my end. I see the files in my repo, and looking through the links, they're all the same numbers as our original channel. After creating the function on the side and waiting hours for my computer to knit and render everything, I know for certain that the numbers should be different. These numbers are all in a seperate branch since the function was not the "automating" process needed. (Thankfully so: the computation time was just too long.)

Fitting models? Fine, enjoyable to see what happens. EDA? Not my favorite, but doable. Though, it feels like I'm just throwing stuff at a wall and seeing what sticks. Automated pages? No clue. Probably the most frustrating part, but not a fun kind of frustrating where you feel satisfied when you figure out the problem such as the previous project's troubleshooting. This feels like it'll be a "finally, I don't have to look at this anymore" sort of feeling. As of writing this, the created pages are incorrect. If this section is not updated, we were unable to figure out how to get the correct pages in time.

The project is linked [here](https://kesettle.github.io/project3/).
